---
layout: post
---
This article is about the establishment of ground-truthing information to support remote sensing (RS) applications using the digital data collection and visualization framework, InsituDB. InsituDB was created for the DEMMIN (Durable Environmental Multidisciplinary Monitoring Information Network) test site in North-East Germany. The authors argue that digital solutions are important to the promotion of food security and the protection of ecosystems. A farmer or researcher may implement InsituDB because collecting survey data digitally takes less time than collecting survey data with pen and paper and agricultural research networks can benefit from open FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable) databases. InsituDB comprises four parts: field data, laboratory measurements, data transfer, and visualization and dissemination. On the DEMMIN test site, some field data was acquired automatically, but information about phenology, canopy height, canopy cover, chlorophyll, and LAI, as well as soil moisture and spectrometric signatures were acquired through regular field campaigns. Survey instruments with various limitations such as the Konica Minolta SPAD-502PLUS or LiCOR were employed. Digital surveys were created using ESRI Survey123 software using the open standard, XLSForm. Although ESRI Survey123 is proprietary, it is highly compatible with ArcGIS Enterprise workflows. JSON scripts transferred data from ArcGIS online to an open PostgreSQL database. This all exists in a Drupal environment which provides an intuitive front-end.

This article succeeded in its purpose to provide a digital solution for agroecological data collection to support RS applications such as crop identification, biomass estimation, yield projection, land use and land cover change classification, assignment of management zones, and assessments of soil properties. Since the DEMMIN site was intensely used and commercially run, I question what makes the data or information from the site "agroecological". I associate agroecology with systems thinking, biodiversity, and social change. Additionally, the authors weakly explain how time saved by the integration of information technologies in agriculture may lead to food security and protected ecosystems. 

Reference: 
  Teucher, Mike, et al. “Digital In Situ Data Collection in Earth Observation, Monitoring and Agriculture—Progress towards Digital Agriculture.” Remote Sensing (Basel, Switzerland), vol. 14, no. 2, 2022, pp. 393-, https://doi.org/10.3390/rs14020393.
